## List and describe at least 5 topics that we discussed in class that you know very well. Each description should be at least 1 paragraph with two to five sentences.

1. The easiest topic that will obviously stick to me for all my life are arithmetic operators, since the operators are also used in Math and other subjects. Of course, the arithmetic operators are simply those that are used for basic mathematical operations, something that can be used to add (+), subtract (-), multiply (*), or divide (/). Of course, in Computer Science, there are a few additional operators, such as Module (%) which is used to get the remainder of something, and in specific programming compilers and the like, like Python, we use (**) for powers and exponents, but most of the time, we do not use that.

2. A bit harder are the relational operators, which I get a mistake in sometimes, but overall, this is not too difficult. These are used to compare to quantities and values to one another, which eventually evaluates to a true or false. These are mostly used for the control statements, since these relational operators are used to create the conditions in those control statements. There is the simple >, <, and ==, which stands for greater than, less than, and equal to, respectively. 

There is the >= or <=, which means greater than or equal to, or less than or equal to. An inequality is !=, which means that the two values are not equal to each other, which if that is the case, it will evaluate to true. The strict equality is ===, which means that not only do the values have to be the same, but the type of data also has to be the same. Inversely, there is the strict inequality !==, which has the same properties as a strict equality and inequality.

3. Loop ccntrol structures are control statements used to repeat a process in order to get a result, with there being a condition which if satisfied stops the loop entirely, and an increment which updates the value, slowly 'fulfilling' the condition. There are three types of loop structures: the while-loop, the for-loop, and the do-while loop. The while-loop is a pre-test loop, which means that the condition is tested first before it does the code, while the do-while loop is a post-test loop, meaning that the code will always execute once before the condition is tested to see if something is fulfilled. The for-loop can be both, but it is typically a pre-test loop.

In general, the while-loop is used if you do not know the number of iterations beforehand while the for-loop is typically used if you can already expect the number of iterations, and you simply want an output, while the do-while loop can be used to repeat an entire block of code. 

4. The conditional control statements are control statements that make a program execute a block of code depending on if a certain condition was fulfilled, or in more elaborate terms, evaluated to true or false. These are used to create flexible programs that are most often used to answer different user inputs and scenarios. There is the if statement which is the most basic and most used, then there is the else statement if the if statement has evaluated to false. If you want to evaluate more cases than just two conditions, then you can use the else-if statement. If you have multiple cases, then you can use the switch statement.

5. Alright, if for the first number, that is the easiest for me in general. In terms of just CS alone, then the declaration & assignment of variables is the easiest for me. Of course, as it says, it basically just deals with the initialization of variables and assigning values to them which actually allows them to be used in the code in the first place. For the declaring or initializing, you could use the var, let, or const, which has a few subtle differences each. For example, the var is used for when you want to be able to reassign and redeclare your variable later on, while let is used if you do not want it to be declared in a latter passage of code. Then finally, the const is used when you do not want your value in the variable to ever be changed.

Speaking of value, in order to assign a value to a variable, you use a (=), which does not mean equal to - refer to earlier number for equal to. So, for example, let us say we have variable x, and we want to assign 5 as a value to it, then the code would be let x = 5. There is also the option to assign a value to the variable through user input, but that is more complicated, though the general application is still the same - the user just inputs a value for the variable rather than there being a set one from the get go. However, I will not talk about the structure of an input statement, with the reasons stated below.

## List at least 5 topics that you know and can describe but needs further practice/discussion and why. The why should be per topic listed.  

1. I need to learn about functions more. It is a block of code that I can call upon - that I know. I also know that it is necessary to ensure that the code does not become bloated, and to simply make it easier for me to manage my code. It is also necessary to have interactivity in websites and the like. 

But, aside from that, I have trouble calling upon it and getting return values. I know the rough structure of a function, and I have the idea of how to call a function, how to get the return values, and all of that, but in practice, I often falter and fail a lot in this, so it is just very hard for me to master overall. In terms of 'understanding', I am fine, but in terms of 'mastery', I am not.

2. HTML buttons for me are a pain in the butt. Actually, the general layout of a HTML and how to use it in general is sort of lost on me, which makes sense as I have been simply using code compilers and other stuff like Python, C++, and JavaScript rather than actually using this. Well, the main problem is the buttons thing, of course, which is why I emphasized it in the first statement. Things like headers, layouts, and the like are fine, but the buttons is a bit hard, which make sense due to the fact that buttons are used to call on a function, and are somewhat dependent on user input. If you look at above and below, you will notice that I am terrible at both functions and input statements.

As a result, for the exercises, I have usually always just defaulted to previous exercises and copied the template/format used there, which would of course be detrimental if I was in an exam or quiz. As such, I will just try to improve on it and research on it more, and well, this is the one where I can safely say that practicing it more will probably definitely ingrain it in my mind, since it seems less like a concept that is hard to understand, but more something that needs to be instinct at some point, like something that you do not even think about anymore. So, basically, I need to practice it more to master it.

3. In all honesty, I do not even know what arrow operators are. That is how inept I am at it, so it is not like I just need to practice it more. Rather, I have to learn the concept entirely, since I do not know it nor can I describe it. I will need to research about it more, and well, I just have to hope that ma'am discusses the topic, since I am completely lost on it. I just guessed the answer on the question in the exam that was related to this, and well, to the surprise of nobody, I got it wrong.

4. I still have some trouble with the input and output statements in JavaScript. Well, in particular, my main problem is the input statements. For the output, the most I have had trouble with it is I sometimes get the data type that is outputted wrong. Like, for example, it would output something that has a string data type, but I thought it was still a numerical one. Aside from that, outputting is fine. 

However, my main problem is inputting. I do not know. It does not have an easily-rememberable structure like the one in C++ and Python for some reason, like, I am having some trouble remembering the input statements, and often times, I just default back into my previous exercises, which is obviously very detrimental if I were doing say a quiz or an exam. I know some rough structures, but overall, I do not understand it yet that it comes to me in an instinctual level like how say control statements are to me.

5. This is a very minor problem in comparison to the others, but I still have a few mistakes regarding boolean statements. Mainly when it comes to dealing with ! or inequality statements. Normal relational operators are fine, and they are also fine in regards to boolean statements and the like, but I have some trouble dealing with inequality statements for some reason, particularly when the inequality statements are also dealing with other statements; for example: !(a&&b||c). In statements like these, I have a harder time getting the evaluation.

Another thing, not really related to that, is I have trouble dealing with converting data types to another data type, or what happens if they interact with one another. For example, I got this wrong: 5 + "3" - 1. I know 5 + "3" is just 53, but I did not realize that it would subtract 1 and just kept it at 53 - 1, which obviously was wrong.

## Describe on what will be your plan of action in order to help yourself in understanding further the topics listed on the second items.

1. Firstly, I will read the materials regarding these lessons. Aside from just reading the materials, I will try to research online more about these topics along with watching videos, in order to further deepen my understanding.

2. Then, I shall actually apply what I have learned which will ensure that my 'understanding' will become 'mastery'. I will probably either search practice exercises online or ask ChatGPT to give me prompts regarding these topics which I will solve, so that I may actually ensure that what I have learned stays as a memory. After all, practice and application is the best way to learn, and without those, theory and simple reading will simply make it so that your brain might have a shallow and surface-level understanding of the topic, but it will not truly know why those things occur. It can know how a function works, but not why a function works, and in my opinion, the latter is far more important. With that, I can master the topics. 

## In the activities that were done in class, list at least two that you think were effective and at least two that you think not effective in helping you understand topics in our course and why?

1. I think that the two most effective activities were probably the two speed tests. Since it had a bonus, it incenvitized me to truly try my best, and since the topic was still fresh in my mind, I was able to easily apply it into the prompts, allowing me to ingrain those topics in my brain.

2. In the contrary, I did not like the two Kahoot Quizzes too much. Although these may work for others, I was not motivated to truly answer the questions properly for the quizzes, and due to the timings of these quizzes, my memories were cluttered, and I had frequent brain farts, which are not effective in actual studying.